 ===============================================================================
                  COMP-2560 SYSTEM PROGRAMMING (Summer 2019)
                                 ASSIGNMENT 2
===============================================================================

This assignment comes with 3 attached programs: myls.c, getpwgr.c, and
timestr.c. The deliverable for the assignment is a modified version of myls.c
according to the instructions below. Your submission should be a .c file in
ASCII format with 80 characters per line, and for full marks should compile
without errors or warnings and produce the expected output.

DUE:    Sun Jun 2 23:55:00 EST 2019
TOTAL:  20 marks


The program myls.c uses the functionality from dirent.h to list the contents
of a directory, similar to the ls utility. If given no argument, it lists the
contents of the current directory. Compile it yourself and try it before
proceeding.

Modify myls.c to output detailed information about each file, similar to the
output of ls when passed the -l option.

The output should include the following information (all available from one
handy system call):

    - file type and mode (in ls -l format, e.g. -rw-r--r--)
    - link count
    - owner user and group (names, not numbers)
    - file size in bytes
    - last modified time (in human-readable form)
    - file name

There are macros called S_ISREG, S_ISDIR, etc. in sys/stat.h that can help you
determine the file type from a mode_t and output the appropriate character. The
file types are:

    -   regular file
    d   directory
    l   symbolic link
    b   block device
    c   character device
    p   named pipe (FIFO)
    s   socket

Recall that constants are defined for each of the 9 permission bits, such as
S_IRUSR, S_IWGRP, etc. Such a constant can be bitwise-ANDed with a mode_t to
determine whether the corresponding permission bit is set.

The corresponding user and group names can be looked up from UID and GID
integers using the functions in pwd.h and grp.h. An example of how to do this
is given in getpwgr.c.

A time_t is normally represented in seconds since the Epoch. The function
strftime() from time.h can convert this to human-readable form. An example is
given in timestr.c.

Files beginning with a . in UNIX are "hidden" files (not normally displayed by
ls). This includes the links . and .. to the current and parent directories,
respectively. Your program should not list these files.

The output of your modified program should look reasonably similar to the
output of ls -l in the same directory (ordering, spacing, and the "total" line
are not important). Sample output:

    $ ./mylsl
    -rw-r-----      1       aaron   users   1792    Jan 23 11:32    mylsl.c
    -rw-r-----      1       aaron   users   327     Jan 23 11:38    timestr.c
    -rw-r-----      1       aaron   users   2639    Jan 23 12:01    a2.txt
    drwxr-x---      2       aaron   users   4096    Jan 23 16:41    work
    -rwxr-x---      1       aaron   users   12741   Jan 23 11:29    mylsl
    -rw-r-----      1       aaron   users   541     Jan 23 10:38    myls.c
    -rwxr-x---      1       aaron   users   8201    Jan 23 11:06    myls
    -rw-r-----      1       aaron   users   710     Jan 23 11:01    getpwgr.c

Check to make sure your program still works when given an argument (i.e. a
directory other than the current directory). If not, think about why not
(hint: what kind of path is entry->d_name?), and how you might fix it.
